>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in this module,
we're going to continue on this
make it everything narrative arc.
So we saw how to make it work
through unit testing, and
how to make it right through static
analysis, which I particularly love.
Because you can get a lot of insight,
with very little effort on our part,
which is nice.
Now we're going to talk about
making your application fast.
And so, obviously, there's tons of things
you can do to accomplish that, but
I want to give you two concrete
things that you can do,
to make your application faster.
And so one of these is something that
is slightly on the advanced spectrum,
but I wanted to service it.
Because being able to
do this first technique is something
that you could not do in angular js.
And it's pretty crazy,
let's talk about change detection.
In Angular JS, one of the valid
criticisms is that if you did
not use,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Change detection
properly or you didn't understand
how the digest cycle was working,
it was really easy to get the applications
kind of a bad sluggish state.
So, for instance,
I had one of my friends come to me.
He owns a company, he's a developer.
He said, hey, I need you to
look at my Angular application,
AngularJS application.
I'll pay you, it just crashes, after
five minutes, we can't use it anymore.
And so I show up, and he's showing me and
I'm just like, wait a second.
You are literally looping over
a thousand records, using repeat and
putting them on the page.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
every one of these records
is fairly complex.
So now you're binding to a thousand
objects, complex objects,
on the page so
it was basically these car records.
And you're wondering why if you
are having to go through and
compare every one of these,
when something changes.
[INAUDIBLE] it's starting to run slow.
I found my experiences that generally
when you have a performance problem,
more than likely, you have a UX problem.
That is actually the performance
problem is a trailing indicator
that your experience is not optimal.
So one of the first things that I
would to a situation like that is,
yes, putting a thousand
records on the page and
binding to them,
that's going to cause some problems.
More importantly,
I don't know anybody who could possibly
process all 1000 of those records.
How many of them could you even
see at a single time, maybe 20?
There's a reason why I would
wager if we did a Google search,
they could give us hundreds
of thousands of records.
But they gave us 20 at a time, because
that is a level in which we can process.
So to say, first of all, with performance,
this is kind of a freebie,
but I run into it a lot,
is if you run into a performance problem,
first stop and
look at the user experience.
For instance, you may not need
a thousand records on the page, or
there may be a way to
simplify the experience.
The one, improve your performance but
also improve it for the user.
So with that said, in Angular two or
above you had the ability, well, first and
foremost, that they redid change
detection from the beginning.
So it's much more performant.
But they also gave us the ability to
control where and when it happens.
And so
they introduced this thing called zone.js.
And it's pretty ridiculous.
And so Brian Ford, who used to be on
the Angular team, I remember one night
we were in San Francisco and
he's telling me, I had this crazy idea and
I think probably like had or whatever
is like this crazy idea of like what if
you monkey patched everything on the DOM,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
you could listen for it.
So change notation on the entire thing.
Not just angular but everything.
And you could do it in an efficient way,
how cool would that be?
I'm thinking that sounds crazy.
Well, anyways, what ended up being really
cool and what ended it up being was JS.
And this is why I kinda had this monkey,
because it's monkey patching
the entire DOM that your app lives in.
More importantly,
is it's creating these very efficient
change detection classes under the hood,
so
it's this optimized thing that has
a current state and a previous state.
And then when something changes,
instead of looping over the component.
It loops over the change detection
class it says, has it change or not?
Do I need to update it or
perform some action.
And as a result change detection
just right at the box,
three to ten times faster.
Amazing, so we're already getting
this huge performance boost
right at under the gates.
But it's even faster than change
detection not needing it at all.
And this is, I think, really interesting,
and do you know what?
We have to start over,
you forgot to unfreeze me.
Well, you know what?
You guys get to hear this
material all over again.
Live stream people, love you.
We didn't catch any of the slide.
Now I'll just get excited
about being excited, again.
Now I've got to think of new jokes.
So anything I said that was
funny in the last three minutes,
I've got to think of
something else that is funny.
So bear with me,
this will take sixty seconds.
So in this module, we're going to
talk making our application fast.
We saw how to make it, right, or
make it work, rather, through testing.
And how to make it bright
through static analysis.
In this module, we're going to
talk about how to make it fast.
And we're going to show two very concrete
things that you can start to do within
your application to enable that.
The first one is change detection.
And so change detection in
AngularJS 1.x was understandably,
you can't get it into a bad state.
If you do not know what you're doing and
you were not cognizant of the digest
cycle, certain things would happen that
would create a bad user experience or
poor user experience such as binding to
A thousand records on the page, not good.
And all of a sudden will start to
creep and crawl and break down.
In Angular 2 and above,
they introduced an entirely
new change detection by virtue of Zone.js.
And how this works is, instead of
looking at the the Angular application,
they are essentially monkey patching the
entire dom structure in the application.
So they are watching every
single dom element, and
monkey patching it with these
change detection classes.
And so it is going through,
analyzing the application.
And it's creating essentially this
optimize class, with a current and
previous state.
And so if something changes,
it just compares the current
state to the previous state.
And if they're different, then it knows
it needs to do something about it.
And so this change or
changing how we do change detection,
resulted in a 3 to 10x improvement.
So already just imagine that your app
is now three to ten times faster,
huge win right out of the gate.
More importantly, faster than that,
is if you simply did not have
to do change detection at all.
So, in Angular,
we can control how an angular,
let's say like a node, in the node tree,
how it responds to change detection.
In fact, by default, it's just how
it's going to respond to every change.
It's going to be much faster, but
it's still going to respond
to every single change.
But we can set change detection to onPush,
and
what that means is it will only check for
changes once, and then it's done.
Any changes that happens,
is going to be pushed down the node,
and Angular is not going
to worry about it.
And so essentially,
we're turning off components detection for
a component branch.
Now, I see kind of some looks here,
like what.
So let's see how this works,
this is a component tree
and this is default change detection.
Something happens,
everything lights up and checks.
Now, with OnPush change detection,
what we can do with this node right here,
we can say we're turning this off.
And we're going to set it to OnPush,
so it's going to evaluate one time,
and then it's done.
No more Change Detection, for
this node and its children.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now when something happens down here
let's say we got this thing coming down
here, and we'll talk about this thing,
what that might be.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
essentially,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, let
me back this up, so something could have
happened on here, and it may not light up.
So it may not need to detect it,
or if you need to force it,
then you could simply at the child branch.
Then you could force it to
run change detection here.
And it goes up through the parent.
But the main thing that generally
will happen, in most cases is this.
Something will happen, and it'll fly
completely under the change detection
radar.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let's think of
a mechanism,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That
we used to communicate changes
across our application,
a few modules back.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It
does it very, very well.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Completely
encapsulated.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Observables,
observables are totally capable of
handling their own change detection.
That's what that next tic is for,
something happened.
We're gonna take it and
we're gonna run with it ourselves.
So you can have, you say everything
that is coming to this thing,
into this particular node
branch is an observable.
Therefore, we do not need
Angular change detection,
because it's in the context
of the observable.
So again, if you remember way back to
day one, I said that Angular is simply
letting other technology, other standard
based technologies to do the work.
And they're leveraging it so
that you get twice the framework,
with half a foot print.
And so in our component,
we simply say ChangeDetection and
we turn it to
ChangeDetectionStrategy OnPush, that's it.
Now, one caveat to this
is that if you have,
for instance, an observable string and
you set it to something.
This will not update your template,
why not?
Well, we turned off change detection.
So what you need to do is this
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: this.cd so
this is changeDectectorRef.detectChanges.
So I guarantee, this is a lot easier
to do this on a very specific basis,
on a specific tic,
than having it run all the time.
So to me this is a no
brainer in terms of tradeoff.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, in a nutshell,
we have the ability to turn off change
detection at a component level,
if it's appropriate.
And allow the observables to handle,
the essentially eventing within this.
Remember, Code volume,
control flow, state management.
Well, they're doing all of these
within the observable string.
It's very common to see an observable
string that is doing all of that or
addressing all of that
very elegant precise and
concise matter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then if we actually do need to
update a template or whatever,
we just call the typed changes and
we just force that on a protect basis.
But we are controlling it, so
very much like detect
changes in our testing.
We're doing just the same thing here,
we have the ability to do that.
Any questions about that?
It makes sense, you just turn it off,
Observables are doing it for us.
And if we need to update it,
we can just force that change to happen.
Use different,
I think that with his first app, and
somebody did a game and optimized it.
It just went through the roof, in terms
of actually speed and responsiveness,
because we're just
turning it off entirely.